Somebook

Chapter 1

1 The burden of the word of Jehovah concerning Israel. [Thus] saith Jehovah, who
stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the foundation of the earth, and
formeth the spirit of man within him:
2 behold, I will make Jerusalem a cup of reeling unto all the peoples round
about, and upon Judah also shall it be in the siege against Jerusalem.
3 And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will make Jerusalem a burdensome
stone for all the peoples; all that burden themselves with it shall be sore
wounded; and all the nations of the earth shall be gathered together against it.
4 In that day, saith Jehovah, I will smite every horse with terror, and his
rider with madness; and I will open mine eyes upon the house of Judah, and will
smite every horse of the peoples with blindness.
5 And the chieftains of Judah shall say in their heart, The inhabitants of
Jerusalem are my strength in Jehovah of hosts their God.
6 In that day will I make the chieftains of Judah like a pan of fire among wood,
and like a flaming torch among sheaves; and they shall devour all the peoples
round about, on the right hand and on the left; and [they of] Jerusalem shall
yet again dwell in their own place, even in Jerusalem.
7 Jehovah also shall save the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house
of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem be not magnified above
Judah.
8 In that day shall Jehovah defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem: and he that is
feeble among them at that day shall be as David; and the house of David shall be
as God, as the angel of Jehovah before them.
9 And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will seek to destroy all the
nations that come against Jerusalem.
10 And I will pour upon the house of David, and upon the inhabitants of
Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplication; and they shall look unto me
whom they have pierced; and they shall mourn for him, as one mourneth for his
only son, and shall be in bitterness for him, as one that is in bitterness for
his first-born.
11 In that day shall there be a great mourning in Jerusalem, as the mourning of
Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon.
12 And the land shall mourn, every family apart; the family of the house of
David apart, and their wives apart; the family of the house of Nathan apart, and
their wives apart;
13 the family of the house of Levi apart, and their wives apart; the family of
the Shimeites apart, and their wives apart;
14 all the families that remain, every family apart, and their wives apart.

Chapter 2

1 In that day there shall be a fountain opened to the house of David and to the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for uncleanness.
2 And it shall come to pass in that day, saith Jehovah of hosts, that I will cut
off the names of the idols out of the land, and they shall no more be
remembered; and also I will cause the prophets and the unclean spirit to pass
out of the land.
3 And it shall come to pass that, when any shall yet prophesy, then his father
and his mother that begat him shall say unto him, Thou shalt not live; for thou
speakest lies in the name of Jehovah; and his father and his mother that begat
him shall thrust him through when he prophesieth.
4 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the prophets shall be ashamed
every one of his vision, when he prophesieth; neither shall they wear a hairy
mantle to deceive:
5 but he shall say, I am no prophet, I am a tiller of the ground; for I have
been made a bondman from my youth.
6 And one shall say unto him, What are these wounds between thine arms? Then he
shall answer, Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends.
7 Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and against the man that is my fellow,
saith Jehovah of hosts: smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered;
and I will turn my hand upon the little ones.
8 And it shall come to pass, that in all the land, saith Jehovah, two parts
therein shall be cut off and die; but the third shall be left therein.
9 And I will bring the third part into the fire, and will refine them as silver
is refined, and will try them as gold is tried. They shall call on my name, and
I will hear them: I will say, It is my people; and they shall say, Jehovah is my
God.

Chapter 3

1 Behold, a day of Jehovah cometh, when thy spoil shall be divided in the midst
of thee.
2 For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle; and the city shall
be taken, and the houses rifled, and the women ravished; and half of the city
shall go forth into captivity, and the residue of the people shall not be cut
off from the city.
3 Then shall Jehovah go forth, and fight against those nations, as when he
fought in the day of battle.
4 And his feet shall stand in that day upon the mount of Olives, which is before
Jerusalem on the east; and the mount of Olives shall be cleft in the midst
thereof toward the east and toward the west, [and there shall be] a very great
valley; and half of the mountain shall remove toward the north, and half of it
toward the south.
5 And ye shall flee by the valley of my mountains; for the valley of the
mountains shall reach unto Azel; yea, ye shall flee, like as ye fled from before
the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah; and Jehovah my God shall
come, and all the holy ones with thee.
6 And it shall come to pass in that day, that there shall not be light; the
bright ones shall withdraw themselves:
7 but it shall be one day which is known unto Jehovah; not day, and not night;
but it shall come to pass, that at evening time there shall be light.
8 And it shall come to pass in that day, that living waters shall go out from
Jerusalem; half of them toward the eastern sea, and half of them toward the
western sea: in summer and in winter shall it be.
9 And Jehovah shall be King over all the earth: in that day shall Jehovah be
one, and his name one.
10 All the land shall be made like the Arabah, from Geba to Rimmon south of
Jerusalem; and she shall be lifted up, and shall dwell in her place, from
Benjamin's gate unto the place of the first gate, unto the corner gate, and from
the tower of Hananel unto the king's wine-presses.
11 And men shall dwell therein, and there shall be no more curse; but Jerusalem
shall dwell safely.
12 And this shall be the plague wherewith Jehovah will smite all the peoples
that have warred against Jerusalem: their flesh shall consume away while they
stand upon their feet, and their eyes shall consume away in their sockets, and
their tongue shall consume away in their mouth.
13 And it shall come to pass in that day, that a great tumult from Jehovah shall
be among them; and they shall lay hold every one on the hand of his neighbor,
and his hand shall rise up against the hand of his neighbor.
14 And Judah also shall fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the nations
round about shall be gathered together, gold, and silver, and apparel, in great
abundance.
15 And so shall be the plague of the horse, of the mule, of the camel, and of
the ass, and of all the beasts that shall be in those camps, as that plague.
16 And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left of all the nations
that came against Jerusalem shall go up from year to year to worship the King,
Jehovah of hosts, and to keep the feast of tabernacles.
17 And it shall be, that whoso of [all] the families of the earth goeth not up
unto Jerusalem to worship the King, Jehovah of hosts, upon them there shall be
no rain.
18 And if the family of Egypt go not up, and come not, neither [shall it be]
upon them; there shall be the plague wherewith Jehovah will smite the nations
that go not up to keep the feast of tabernacles.
19 This shall be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all the nations
that go not up to keep the feast of tabernacles.
20 In that day shall there be upon the bells of the horses, HOLY UNTO JEHOVAH;
and the pots in Jehovah's house shall be like the bowls before the altar.
21 Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holy unto Jehovah of hosts;
and all they that sacrifice shall come and take of them, and boil therein: and
in that day there shall be no more a Canaanite in the house of Jehovah of hosts.


Malachi

Chapter 1

1 The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel by Malachi.
2 I have loved you, saith Jehovah. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was
not Esau Jacob's brother? saith Jehovah: yet I loved Jacob;
3 but Esau I hated, and made his mountains a desolation, and [gave] his heritage
to the jackals of the wilderness.
4 Whereas Edom saith, We are beaten down, but we will return and build the waste
places; thus saith Jehovah of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down;
and men shall call them The border of wickedness, and The people against whom
Jehovah hath indignation for ever.
5 And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, Jehovah be magnified beyond the
border of Israel.
6 A son honoreth his father, and a servant his master: if then I am a father,
where is mine honor? and if I am a master, where is my fear? saith Jehovah of
hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we
despised thy name?
7 Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar. And ye say, Wherein have we polluted
thee? In that ye say, The table of Jehovah is contemptible.
8 And when ye offer the blind for sacrifice, it is no evil! and when ye offer
the lame and sick, it is no evil! Present it now unto thy governor; will he be
pleased with thee? or will he accept thy person? saith Jehovah of hosts.
9 And now, I pray you, entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious unto
us: this hath been by your means: will he accept any of your persons? saith
Jehovah of hosts.
10 Oh that there were one among you that would shut the doors, that ye might not
kindle [fire on] mine altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, saith Jehovah of
hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand.
11 For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name
[shall be] great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense [shall be]
offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name [shall be] great among
the Gentiles, saith Jehovah of hosts.
12 But ye profane it, in that ye say, The table of Jehovah is polluted, and the
fruit thereof, even its food, is contemptible.
13 Ye say also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and ye have snuffed at it, saith
Jehovah of hosts; and ye have brought that which was taken by violence, and the
lame, and the sick; thus ye bring the offering: should I accept this at your
hand? saith Jehovah.
14 But cursed be the deceiver, who hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and
sacrificeth unto the Lord a blemished thing; for I am a great King, saith
Jehovah of hosts, and my name is terrible among the Gentiles.

Chapter 2

1 And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you.
2 If ye will not hear, and if ye will not lay it to heart, to give glory unto my
name, saith Jehovah of hosts, then will I send the curse upon you, and I will
curse your blessings; yea, I have cursed them already, because ye do not lay it
to heart.
3 Behold, I will rebuke your seed, and will spread dung upon your faces, even
the dung of your feasts; and ye shall be taken away with it.
4 And ye shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you, that my covenant
may be with Levi, saith Jehovah of hosts.
5 My covenant was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him that he
might fear; and he feared me, and stood in awe of my name.
6 The law of truth was in his mouth, and unrighteousness was not found in his
lips: he walked with me in peace and uprightness, and turned many away from
iniquity.
7 For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at
his mouth; for he is the messenger of Jehovah of hosts.
8 But ye are turned aside out of the way; ye have caused many to stumble in the
law; ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith Jehovah of hosts.
9 Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before all the people,
according as ye have not kept my ways, but have had respect of persons in the
law.
10 Have we not all one father? hath not one God created us? why do we deal
treacherously every man against his brother, profaning the covenant of our
fathers?
11 Judah hath dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and
in Jerusalem; for Judah hath profaned the holiness of Jehovah which he loveth,
and hath married the daughter of a foreign god.
12 Jehovah will cut off, to the man that doeth this, him that waketh and him
that answereth, out of the tents of Jacob, and him that offereth an offering
unto Jehovah of hosts.
13 And this again ye do: ye cover the altar of Jehovah with tears, with weeping,
and with sighing, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering any more, neither
receiveth it with good will at your hand.
14 Yet ye say, Wherefore? Because Jehovah hath been witness between thee and the
wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously, though she is thy
companion, and the wife of thy covenant.
15 And did he not make one, although he had the residue of the Spirit? And
wherefore one? He sought a godly seed. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and
let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth.
16 For I hate putting away, saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, and him that
covereth his garment with violence, saith Jehovah of hosts: therefore take heed
to your spirit, that ye deal not treacherously.
17 Ye have wearied Jehovah with your words. Yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied
him? In that ye say, Every one that doeth evil is good in the sight of Jehovah,
and he delighteth in them; or where is the God of justice?

Chapter 3

1 Behold, I send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the
Lord, whom ye seek, will suddenly come to his temple; and the messenger of the
covenant, whom ye desire, behold, he cometh, saith Jehovah of hosts.
2 But who can abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand when he
appeareth? for he is like a refiner's fire, and like fuller's soap:
3 and he will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the
sons of Levi, and refine them as gold and silver; and they shall offer unto
Jehovah offerings in righteousness.
4 Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto Jehovah, as in
the days of old, and as in ancient years.
5 And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against
the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against the false swearers, and
against those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the
fatherless, and that turn aside the sojourner [from his right], and fear not me,
saith Jehovah of hosts.
6 For I, Jehovah, change not; therefore ye, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed.
7 From the days of your fathers ye have turned aside from mine ordinances, and
have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith Jehovah of
hosts. But ye say, Wherein shall we return?
8 Will a man rob God? yet ye rob me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In
tithes and offerings.
9 Ye are cursed with the curse; for ye rob me, even this whole nation.
10 Bring ye the whole tithe into the store-house, that there may be food in my
house, and prove me now herewith, saith Jehovah of hosts, if I will not open you
the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room
enough [to receive it] .
11 And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the
fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast its fruit before the time in
the field, saith Jehovah of hosts.
12 And all nations shall call you happy; for ye shall be a delightsome land,
saith Jehovah of hosts.
13 Your words have been stout against me, saith Jehovah. Yet ye say, What have
we spoken against thee?
14 Ye have said, It is vain to serve God; and what profit is it that we have
kept his charge, and that we have walked mournfully before Jehovah of hosts?
15 And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are built up;
yea, they tempt God, and escape.
16 Then they that feared Jehovah spake one with another; and Jehovah hearkened,
and heard, and a book of remembrance was written before him, for them that
feared Jehovah, and that thought upon his name.
17 And they shall be mine, saith Jehovah of hosts, [even] mine own possession,
in the day that I make; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that
serveth him.
18 Then shall ye return and discern between the righteous and the wicked,
between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not.

Chapter 4

1 For, behold, the day cometh, it burneth as a furnace; and all the proud, and
all that work wickedness, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn
them up, saith Jehovah of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor
branch.
2 But unto you that fear my name shall the sun of righteousness arise with
healing in its wings; and ye shall go forth, and gambol as calves of the stall.
3 And ye shall tread down the wicked; for they shall be ashes under the soles of
your feet in the day that I make, saith Jehovah of hosts.
4 Remember ye the law of Moses my servant, which I commanded unto him in Horeb
for all Israel, even statutes and ordinances.
5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and terrible day
of Jehovah come.
6 And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of
the children to their fathers; lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.